(bright instrumental music)
Error handling for async/await
is actually very simple,
although it doesn't look as nice in your code,
which leads some people to not be all that excited about it.
So, the way that it works is you simply just take
all or one of your Await functions,
anything that needs to be awaited,
and you wrap the entire thing in a try-catch block.
So essentially, we say try,
do all of this code,
and if anything happens,
don't worry.
We're sort of like sandboxed in the confines
of these curly brackets here.
So we will catch the error.
And then in here,
we can just do console.error('Ohhhh nooo!!!'),
and console.error, the actual error that we have.
So there we go.
Start, Ohhhh nooo!!!
That value was too small.
And then at that point,
we'd be able to show our user our actual values.
There is a bit more of a complicated way
that we can do it
by using something called a high-order function.
So let me just explain to you
where I stumbled upon this more advanced function,
and it was in my Node course.
So in my Node course, we do things often
where we put our routes into variables.
So we'll say like const userPage =, and then we'll have
our router.get, and when somebody visits the userPage,
we're going to run a function that has a request object
with information about the data coming in.
We have a response object,
which is the information going back to the browser
or to the actual thing that requested it,
and then we have a function called next,
which will allow us to skip on over to the next route
that is in the thing,
or eventually it will trickle down into our error page.
Now, that was really handy,
because what we needed to do is do a database lookup
where we'd see something like const users =,
we'll take our user model, and we would like find them all,
or find them all where the email is equal to wesbos,
or something like that, right?
So, let's say for example this would return,
like, 10 users.
The problem here is that this User.find was promisified.
So that's pretty simple.
We can just type await in front of it
and then make this callback function here async.
And then we would wait for the database to come back
with all of its information
and put it into our users variable.
That is a perfect user of async/await,
because there's no callbacks.
There are multilevels of functions using there.
The downside is that if anything were to ever go awry
with our database lookup,
where maybe the database is connected,
or we had a syntax error,
or anything that were to go wrong here,
the whole thing would break,
and eventually what's gonna happen
is your node process is just gonna exit.
So you do need to wrap this entire thing in a try,
and then you would catch the actual error,
and then in here,
you would say res.render out the error page.
But the thing here is that this error page,
we would need to do this for every single route.
And if you have 30, 40 pages on your website,
try-catching and rendering out the error page
for every single one is not exactly ideal.
So, what we can do is actually use a concept
called a high-order function,
which will allow us
to sort of wrap this userPage function that we made here
in another function that will act
as sort of a catch-all for all of 'em.
So, let's take a look at how that works right now.
So, obviously, we don't need this code here.
That was just an example.
So go ahead and delete it.
And then I also you want you to delete the catch
along with the console.errors
and the try in our sync function.
So we are just running an async function
with await inside of it, no try-catch to save us
for when this actually errors.
And let's just double-check
that we're gonna get our uncaught in Promise.
Good.
Then what we can do is we can make
what's called a high-order function
that's going to wrap this function ourselves.
And you can do some more research into what this is,
but essentially what a high-order function is
is a function that takes in a function
as an argument and returns a new function to yourself.
So, it's sort of like a little function factory
that takes in a function,
adds a little bit of its own sparkle on top,
and then returns to you a brand-new function.
So let's go right here,
and we're going to make a function
called catchErrors,
and that is going to take in a function,
we'll call it fn.
Now from that,
we're actually going to be returning a function.
But let me stop real quick.
This fn that's getting passed in,
that's gonna be any function.
You know when I have like an array of items,
and you call .map,
and what is the argument that you give to map?
Well, you give it a function,
or maybe you have like a little arrow function.
Whether it's an arrow function or a regular function,
it doesn't matter, but that is to say
that the argument for map is in itself a function.
And often, people are very comfortable using these map
things no problem and passing the argument to a function,
but when you're on the other side
actually creating a function that takes in a function
as an argument, it can get a little bit wishy-washy.
So stick with me here.
Don't worry if this doesn't
totally make sense right off the bat.
It will definitely comes to you after a couple go's over it.
So, we're taking in a function,
and then we're going to immediately just return
a new function,
and let's just like, console.log the actual function
that came in.
So, and then the way that this is going to work
is we're not going to run go directly right here.
What we're going to do is make a wrapped function.
So let's say const wrappedFunction = catchErrors,
and then we're gonna pass it
the name of the function that we wanna run.
So, go.
Now we have this new function called wrappedFunction.
Let me show you.
Nothing is there,
but if I looked at my wrappedFunction
here, you'll see that this
is just a function that console logs it.
It's a pretty standard little function.
But if I were to run that,
then we still don't run our same function,
but we actually see that the function
is then being passed in.
Now, here is where the magic comes in.
From that, we are going to return
the actual function itself, but we're gonna run it.
So again, at this point, fn is really our go function.
So we're kind of returning go,
but we're making this nice and flexible
so you can pass in any function.
And then we're going to tack on the .catch onto the end,
because this is Promise's after all,
so you can always just tack on a .catch on the end
and then inside of there, you could either pass that off
to an external, like, handleErrors function,
or you could handle the error right then and there.
So let's just do that real quick.
We get the error, and then let's just
console.error('Ohhhh nooo!!!!!'),
and console.error the actual error.
So we have a function that returns a function
that returns a function that runs
but with a catch on the end.
So all this function is doing is running it
and tacking on a catch to catch any errors that we have.
Now we have this wrappedFunction down here,
and if we were to run that wrappedFunction
at the end of the day, we're running go.
We're sort of like taking go, wrapping it in catchErrors,
sprinkling a little bit of extra something something on top
with catchErrors,
and then that gives us a brand-new wrappedFunction function.
So now, when we refresh, there we go.
We hit our first error, which is under 500,
and then we get our Ohhhh nooo!!!!!
That is too small of a value,
because we've wrapped it in this value.
So one other question I get fairly often
is like, that's great, but what if my go function
took an argument, like name,
and then we were gonna like, maybe like,
starting for, and we'll put the person's name,
right, inside of there?
Well, how does that work?
Well, again, you can just pass wrappedFunction('Wes'),
and when we rerun this, it's not gonna work, but watch.
Starting for undefined,
so, how does, how do we get the arguments
to pass themselves through?
Well, what we can do is we can take name in here
and then pass the name here.
That'll work, right?
STarting for Wes!!!
It works good,
but like, that's not very flexible,
because how do we know how many arguments are coming
and what the names of the arguments and parameters are?
So what we can do,
look back to our ES6 rest and spread parameters,
is we can use a rest here, ...args,
to capture all the arguments into an array,
and then we can use our spread ...args to spread
all those arguments immediately back into that function.
So give it a save, refresh.
STarting for Wes!!!
Good, it works no problem,
and if I were to add like a, like a last name variable
where we were to put the person's last name in there
as well, and I were to pass Bos here,
it should just work
without having to modify our catchErrors function.
Beautiful, STarting for Wes Bos!!!
So, give that a couple times over.
Maybe give it a bit of a read through a few times.
But this catchErrors is going to be really handy.
That said, it shouldn't be used absolutely all the time,
because in many cases, you do wanna catch the error
right inside of your function
because you specifically know how to handle it.
If you are catching a form validation error,
you'll wanna handle that differently
than when you're encountering any type
of like a timer error or any other error
that's going to encounter on your website.
So, this is great for a use case where you're handling
all the errors in a similar way
and you don't wanna have to write a try-catch
for every single one,
exactly how we've done it in the Learn Node.
We've got lots of different URLs,
and if any URL breaks,
then we immediately will do the exact same thing
for each of 'em.
We will render out the error page
and show them the actual error.
However, in some other use cases,
we wanna have a custom error.
And if that's the case,
then we will catch it ourselves
and deal with it directly.
So, hopefully that helps you a little bit.
I know this stuff's a little bit hairy,
but I'll see you in the next video.